Multi-tenancy in cloud is a double-edged sword that may lead to various security concerns in spite of its transformative contribution to resource optimization. Such security concerns are 
evident from a wide range of attacks reported in both the literature and the industry. As a result, the accountability and transparency of cloud service providers often become questionable
to cloud tenants. To defend against security threats and build the trust of users, verifying security policies using formal verification methods, a.k.a. security auditing, has been a standard practice for years in the industry and is a desirable solution for clouds. However, security auditing in clouds presents several unique challenges. First, the dynamic and
self-service nature of clouds means any auditing result may become obsolete very quickly and therefore, a runtime security auditing process is desirable for ensuring continuous protection against security threats. Second, the sheer size and high operational complexity of clouds means a runtime solution must be highly efficient and scalable in order to ensure a practical 
response time to users. Finally, the co-existence of a large number of tenants and users with different needs implies. That an auditing solution cannot assume users’ behaviors to follow 
any fixed or previously known patterns. The existing security auditing approaches still fall short to overcome such challenges. First, the retroactive approaches catch violations of security policies after the fact by verifying cloud states (e.g., configurations and logs). As a result, they cannot prevent security breaches from propagating or causing potentially
irreversible damages (e.g., leaks of confidential information or denial of service). Second, the intercept-and-check approaches audit the impacts of each change request to the cloud before
granting them, which leads to a substantial delay to users’ requests. Third, the proactive approaches in verify potential user requests in advance, by assuming a known sequence of user 
requests, namely, the change plan; however, such an assumption about fixed change plans might not always be realistic, especially considering the diverse and fast-evolving needs of cloud
tenants and users.
